# High-Performance Computing Lab for CSE 

## News

* Lecture begins on Monday, February 22, 14:15 (22.02.21)

## General information

**Lecturers**   : [Olaf Schenk](mailto:oschenk@ethz.ch),
                  [Roger K&auml;ppeli](mailto:roger.kaeppeli@sam.math.ethz.ch)

**Assistants**  : [Aryan Eftekhari](mailto:aryan.eftekhari@usi.ch),
                  [Lisa Gaedke-Merzhaeuser](mailto:lisa.gaedke.merzhaeuser@usi.ch),
                  [Dimosthenis Pasadakis](mailto:dimosthenis.pasadakis@usi.ch),
                  [Tim Holt](mailto:timothy.holt@usi.ch),
                  [Ignacio Labarca](mailto:ignacio.labarca@sam.math.ethz.ch),
                  [Michal Sudwoj](mailto:msudwoj@student.ethz.ch),
                  [Aurelio Dolfini](mailto:adolfini@student.ethz.ch),
                  and [Georg Pollak](mailto:pollakg@student.ethz.ch)

**Mailing list**: <hpclab_fs21@sympa.ethz.ch>

**When** : Monday, 14:15 - 18:00

**Where**:  over Zoom Meeting ID: 598 578 282 (https://ethz.zoom.us/j/598578282).

## Course Description
This HPC Lab for CSE will focus on the effective exploitation of
state-of-the-art HPC systems with a special focus on Computational
Science and Engineering. The content of the course is tailored for 3rd
year Bachelor students interested in both learning parallel
programming models, scientific mathematical libraries, and having
hands-on experience using HPC systems.

## Contents
A goal of the course is that students will learn the principles and
practices of basic numerical methods and HPC to enable large-scale
scientific simulations. This goal will be achieved within six to eight
mini-projects with a focus on HPC and CSE. The students will learn the
principles and practices of basic parallel numerical
computation. These projects might be accompanied by reading
assignments on the theory of the selected numerical method or the
programming language. The course consists of hands-on projects on HPC
and CSE. Students will also be offered a number of exercises on
performance analysis, parallelism detection and efficient development
for modern manycore processors using OpenMP and MPI. This experience
will be very useful for individual semester projects in other classes,
where students might develop & deploy components of massively parallel
numerical simulation software. GPU computing will not be covered in
this course. It will be fully discussed in the annual CSCS-USI summer
school on Effective High-Performance Computing & Data Analytics with
GPUs where we will focus on the effective exploitation of
state-of-the-art hybrid High-Performance Computing (HPC) systems with
a special focus on Data Analytics. The content of the summer school
course is tailored for intermediate graduate students interested in
both learning parallel programming models, and having hands-on
experience using HPC systems. Starting from an introductory
explanation of the available systems at CSCS, the course will progress
to more applied topics such as parallel programming on accelerators,
scientific libraries, and deep learning software frameworks. The
following topics will be covered: GPU architectures, GPU programming,
Message passing programming model (MPI), Performance optimization and
scientific libraries, interactive supercomputing, Python libraries,
Introduction to Machine Learning, and GPU optimized framework. The
Summer School will be held as an online course this year, from July 19
to 30, 2021. More information is available at this Link.  ETH RW/CSE
Students will be able to earn six ECT c


## Lecture slides, projects and solutions
Lecture slides, projects and solutions will be provided as part of this
git repository.

For further material, we also refer to the [Moodle course
page](https://moodle-app2.let.ethz.ch/course/view.php?id=14316).



## Lab & Coursework
The lab requirements include programming of mini-projects and other
assignments; final oral examination.All of these will count in your
final grade.  The final grade will be calculated by averaging the two
elements with weights

  * up to six to eight mini-projects: 40%.
  * final oral exam: 60%
  * Value in ECTS: 7


## Programming
We will use C/C++, Matlab, MPI, and the Intel Math Kernel Library for
the mini-project programs.


## Final oral exam
In the oral exam, we will review these mini-projects and the theory
behind it, and discuss various aspects of these methods (performance,
numerical algorithms).  The oral exam will cover material from the
entire course and we might discuss your solutions.


## Late day policy
All assignments are due in class on the assigned due date.  We
recognize that students may face unusual circumstances and require
some flexibility in the course of the semester, therefore each student
will be granted ONE free assignment that we will not count for the
final grading of the mini-projects.


## Assignment collaboration policy
You are allowed to discuss such questions with anyone you like; however:

* Your submission must list anyone you discussed problems with.

* You must write up your submission independently.

## Submission
If you want to receive feedback on your exercises, please
submit/upload your solution to this moodle webpage:

<https://moodle-app2.let.ethz.ch/course/view.php?id=14316>

Your exercise will then be corrected within a period of three weeks
(maybe earlier).

## Exam information 

* TBA 

For questions or remarks, please use the mailing list:
<hpclab_fs21@sympa.ethz.ch>


